### Dependency Inversion Principle
- High-level classes shouldn’t depend on low-level classes. Both should depend on abstractions. Abstractions shouldn’t depend on details. Details should depend on abstractions.
- Usually when designing software, you can make a distinction between two levels of classes.
> - Low-level classes implement basic operations such as working with a disk, transferring data over a network, connecting to a database, etc.
> - High-level classes contain complex business logic that directs low-level classes to do something
- Sometimes people design low-level classes first and only then start working on high-level ones. This is very common when you start developing a prototype on a new system, and you’re not even sure what’s possible at the higher level because low-level stuff isn’t yet implemented or clear. With such an approach business logic classes tend to become dependent on primitive low-level classes.
- The dependency inversion principle suggests changing the direction of this dependency.
> - For starters, you need to describe interfaces for low-level oper- ations that high-level classes rely on, preferably in business terms. For instance, business logic should call a method openReport(file) rather than a series of methods openFile(x) , readBytes(n) , closeFile(x) . These interfaces count as high-level ones.
> - Now you can make high-level classes dependent on those interfaces, instead of on concrete low-level classes. This dependency will be much softer than the original one.
> - Once low-level classes implement these interfaces, they become dependent on the business logic level, reversing the direction of the original dependency.
> - The dependency inversion principle often goes along with the open/closed principle: you can extend low-level classes to use with different business logic classes without breaking existing classes.
